content: draft: Create dependency-track.md (#1432)
slsa-framework/slsa: docs/spec/draft/dependency-track.md

No claims are made for prior artifact versions.

## Levels

| Level | Requirements
| --- | ---
| Dependency L0 | (none)
| Dependency L1 | Inventory of dependencies exists
| Dependency L2 | Known vulnerabilities have been triaged
| Dependency L3 | Dependencies consumed from sources under producer's control
| Dependency L4 | Proactive defence against upstream attacks

---

## Level 0: No mitigations to dependency threats
  
**Summary:**

L0 represents the lack of SLSA.

**Threats:**

N/A

**Outcome:**

N/A

## Level 1: Inventory of dependencies exists

**Summary:**

Maintain an inventory of all build dependencies for a released artifact.

**Threat:**

Inability to respond to incidents or remediate vulnerabilities.

**Outcome:**

All third party build dependencies (including transitive) are identified.

-   A comprehensive picture of all third party dependencies enables understanding of the risk exposure.
-   An inventory is a prerequisite to identify and manage known vulnerabilities.
-   Implementing a centralized inventorycan enable efficient incident response and risk exposure measurement.

> ## Level 2: Known vulnerabilities have been triaged

Reviewer: optional: Should the requirement titles be more active?

E.g. "Level 1: Produce an inventory of all build dependencies", "Level 2: Triage all known vulnerabilities".

**Summary:**

All known vulnerabilities in the artifact have been triaged.

**Threat:**

Introducing vulnerable dependencies into artifact.

**Outcome:**

Artifacts are released with no unknown 'known' vulnerabilities. Outcomes of the triage could result in the decision to:

-   Remediate vulnerabilities, prior to release
-   Proceed with the release and remediate vulnerabilities in the next release, following normal release cycle
-   Proceed with the release and remediate vulnerabilities by expediting the next patch release.

**Note:**

-   Does NOT mean the artifact is free of vulnerabilities, but at the time of release all known vulnerabilities are triaged.
-   Race condition: new vulnerability can, theoretically, be published on the same day as the release.

## Level 3: Dependencies consumed from sources under producer's control

**Summary:**

All third-party build dependencies are consumed from sources under the producer’s control.

**Threat:**

Availability risks of upstream sources being removed or taken down (e.g. left-pad incident).

**Outcome:**

> The build process consumes all third party build dependencies only from artifact producer-controlled sources, allowing for control of how dependencies enter the supply chain, reducing the attackable surface.  This also enables developers to continue to build even if upstream resources are unavailable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The build process consumes all third party build dependencies only from artifact producer-controlled locations, allowing for control of how dependencies enter the supply chain, reducing the attackable surface.  This also enables developers to continue to build even if upstream resources are unavailable.
```

**Note:**

Compliance with this level enables the ability to achieve Level 4 compliance.

## Level 4: Proactive defence against upstream attack
  
**Summary:**

Artifact producer is able to enforce a secure ingestion policy over third-party build dependencies in order to prevent the consumption of compromised upstream artifacts.

**Threat:**

Malicious attacks on upstream sources such as package managers, compromised packages, and dependency confusion. Attacks include:

-   A dependency adds a new transitive dependency that is malicious (e.g. Event-Stream incident)
-   Typosquatting
-   Dependency Confusion
-   Intentional vulnerabilities/backdoors/protestware added to a code base (e.g. Colors v1.4.1 incident, node-ipc incident)

**Outcome:**

Reduced likelihood of a released artifact including a malicious or compromised third-party dependency.

**Note:**

This capability builds on Level 3.

---

> ## Requirements

Reviewer: I think the requirements here have gotten disconnected from the list above.

E.g. level 2 above is "Known vulnerabilities have been triaged" but here that's listed as Level 3.

it would also be worth ensuring the requirement titles are the same.

Author: I have added check marks as appropriate

| Requirement | Description | Example | L1 | L2 | L3 | L4
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---

> | Maintain a complete inventory of all dependencies used in development | An organization producing artifacts MUST implement tooling that inventories dependencies for every version they release | Build-time SBOM generated by the build tool, capturing direct and transitive dependencies for the artifact being released. For language ecosystem dependencies, dependency pinning can serve as a starting point for many ecosystems as it provides identification for all transitive dependencies (e.g. `package-lock.json`, `pip –require-hashes`, `go.sum`, Gradle lock). Software Composition Analysis (SCA) tools can serve as another starting point to produce an SBOM, capturing an artifact’s dependencies Metadata associated with vendored source code, identifying the dependency (e.g. by specifying CPE or ecosystem, name and version or a package URL) | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | ✓

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Inventory of dependencies exists | An organization producing artifacts MUST implement tooling that inventories dependencies for every version they release | Build-time SBOM generated by the build tool, capturing direct and transitive dependencies for the artifact being released. For language ecosystem dependencies, dependency pinning can serve as a starting point for many ecosystems as it provides identification for all transitive dependencies (e.g. `package-lock.json`, `pip –require-hashes`, `go.sum`, Gradle lock). Software Composition Analysis (SCA) tools can serve as another starting point to produce an SBOM, capturing an artifact’s dependencies Metadata associated with vendored source code, identifying the dependency (e.g. by specifying CPE or ecosystem, name and version or a package URL) | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | ✓
```

Aligning requirement name with the updated text above.

**Note:**

Compliance with this level enables the ability to achieve Level 4 compliance.

## Level 4: Proactive defence against upstream attack
  
**Summary:**

Artifact producer is able to enforce a secure ingestion policy over third-party build dependencies in order to prevent the consumption of compromised upstream artifacts.

**Threat:**

Malicious attacks on upstream sources such as package managers, compromised packages, and dependency confusion. Attacks include:

-   A dependency adds a new transitive dependency that is malicious (e.g. Event-Stream incident)
-   Typosquatting
-   Dependency Confusion
-   Intentional vulnerabilities/backdoors/protestware added to a code base (e.g. Colors v1.4.1 incident, node-ipc incident)

**Outcome:**

Reduced likelihood of a released artifact including a malicious or compromised third-party dependency.

**Note:**

This capability builds on Level 3.

> Software producer enforces the following minimum secure ingestion policy over third-party build dependencies in order to prevent the consumption of compromised upstream artifacts:
> 
> -   All versions of build dependencies must be at least 72 hours old, with exemption for versions that address known vulnerabilities.
> -   All private producer-owned build dependencies are acquired from internal sources.
> -   Build dependencies must not contain any known malicious packages, or unwanted functionality (e.g. bitcoin miners).
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> **Intended for:**
> Consumers of third party dependencies, including open source, and third party binaries wanting to mitigate against the most prevalent supply chain threats targeting the open source ecosystem.
> 
> **Compliance options:**
> 
> -   Managed ingestion of artifacts into producer’s systems is one place to enforce the above requirements, e.g.:
>     -   By only ingesting packages that were released 72 hours ago.
>     -   By checking all packages and versions against known malicious packages databases (e.g. OpenSSF Malicious Packages).
> -   Many artifact management solutions support virtual repositories that enable mitigation of dependency confusion.
> -   Leverage dependency security metadata feeds to inform policy decisions on dependencies you consume.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> 
> **NOTES / Discussion:**
> 
> -   This capability builds on Level 3.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> # Dependency Track

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Dependency Track
```

> ## Objective

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> Enable a software producer to measure, control, and reduce risk introduced from third party dependencies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

-   Ecosystem, name and version (e.g. native names and versions used in package registries).
-   Common Platform Enumeration (CPE).
-   Other identifiers that enable joining with known vulnerabilities data sources.

**Intended for:**
Consumers of third party dependencies, including open source, and third party binaries wanting to ingest dependencies from trusted and authenticated reputable package registries.

**Compliance options:**
-   Build-time SBOM generated by the build tool, capturing complete direct and transitive dependencies for the artifact being released.
-   For language ecosystem dependencies, dependency pinning can serve as a starting point for many ecosystems as it provides identification for all transitive dependencies (e.g. `package-lock.json`, `pip –require-hashes`, `go.sum`, Gradle lock)
-   Software Composition Analysis (SCA) tools can serve as another starting point to produce an SBOM, capturing an artifact’s dependencies
-   Metadata associated with vendored source code, identifying the dependency (e.g. by specifying CPE or ecosystem, name and version or a package URL)

> **Benefits:**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Benefits:**

```

-   Complete picture of all third party dependencies enables understanding of the risk exposure
-   Complete inventory is a prerequisite for known vulnerability management
-   Centralized inventory implementation can enable efficient incident response and risk exposure measurement.

> **Threats mitigated at this level:**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Threats mitigated at this level:**

```

-   Unknown dependencies in your supply chain is unmanaged risk

---

> ## Level 2: All known vulnerabilities have been triaged prior to production release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Level 2: All known vulnerabilities have been triaged prior to production release
```

**Outcome:**  

> Software producer triages all known vulnerabilities in software prior to its release. An outcome of the triage could be:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Software producer triages all known vulnerabilities in software prior to its release. An outcome of the triage could be:

```

**Note:**

-   Does NOT mean the artifact is free of vulnerabilities, but at the time of release all known vulnerabilities are triaged.
-   Race condition: new vulnerability can, theoretically, be published on the same day as the release.

## Level 3: Dependencies consumed from sources under producer's control

**Summary:**

All third-party build dependencies are consumed from sources under the producer’s control.

**Threat:**

Availability risks of upstream sources being removed or taken down (e.g. left-pad incident).

**Outcome:**

The build process consumes all third party build dependencies only from artifact producer-controlled sources, allowing for control of how dependencies enter the supply chain, reducing the attackable surface.  This also enables developers to continue to build even if upstream resources are unavailable.

**Note:**

Compliance with this level enables the ability to achieve Level 4 compliance.

## Level 4: Proactive defence against upstream attack
  
**Summary:**

Artifact producer is able to enforce a secure ingestion policy over third-party build dependencies in order to prevent the consumption of compromised upstream artifacts.

**Threat:**

> Malicious attacks on upstream sources such as package managers, compromised packages, and dependency confusion.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Malicious attacks on upstream sources such as package managers, compromised packages, and dependency confusion. Attacks include:
-    A dependency adds a new transitive dependency that is malicious (e.g. Event-Stream incident)
-    Typosquatting
-    Dependency Confusion
-    Intentional vulnerabilities/backdoors/protestware added to a code base (e.g. Colors v1.4.1 incident, node-ipc incident)
```

> **Compliance options:**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Compliance options:**

```

> All of Dependency L1, plus:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All of Dependency L1, plus:

```

-   All versions of build dependencies must be at least 72 hours old, with exemption for versions that address known vulnerabilities.
-   All private producer-owned build dependencies are acquired from internal sources.
-   Build dependencies must not contain any known malicious packages, or unwanted functionality (e.g. bitcoin miners).

**Intended for:**
Consumers of third party dependencies, including open source, and third party binaries wanting to mitigate against the most prevalent supply chain threats targeting the open source ecosystem.

**Compliance options:**

-   Managed ingestion of artifacts into producer’s systems is one place to enforce the above requirements, e.g.:
    -   By only ingesting packages that were released 72 hours ago.
    -   By checking all packages and versions against known malicious packages databases (e.g. OpenSSF Malicious Packages).
-   Many artifact management solutions support virtual repositories that enable mitigation of dependency confusion.
-   Leverage dependency security metadata feeds to inform policy decisions on dependencies you consume.

**NOTES / Discussion:**

-   This capability builds on Level 3.

> 
> **Benefits:**
> All of Dependency L3, plus:
> 
> -   Policy enforcement systems are integrated into the standardized consumption method to check dependencies for issues before the dependency is downloaded.
> -   Reduces risk of initial compromise from supply chain threats, preventing costs incurred from responding to an incident.
> 
> **Threats mitigated at this level:**
> 
> -   A malicious actor compromises a known good dependency to add malicious functionality in a newly published version of that dependency (e.g. ESLint incident)
> -   A dependency adds a new transitive dependency that is malicious (e.g. Event-Stream incident)
> -   Typosquatting
> -   Dependency Confusion
> -   Intentional vulnerabilities/backdoors/protestware added to a code base (e.g. Colors v1.4.1 incident, node-ipc incident)
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

---
title: Dependency Track
description: This page describes the SLSA Dependeny track, which enablse a software producer to measure, control, and reduce risk introduced from third party dependencies.
---

## Objective

Enable a software producer to measure, control, and reduce risk introduced from third party dependencies.

## Audience

The Dependency Track is primarily aimed at enterprises/organizations, with medium to large-sized organizations benefiting the most from adoption of the dependency track levels. Organizations include enterprises, but also large open source projects that want to manage third party dependency risk.

## Scope

The scope of the SLSA Dependency Track is to properly manage and securely consume build dependencies into the developer workflow to mitigate against supply chain threats targeting the open source ecosystem.

---

## Definitions

> | Primary Term | Description                                                                                                                                    

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Primary Term | Description
```

|-----------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> |**Build dependencies:**        | Software artifacts fetched or otherwise made available to the build environment during the build of the artifact. This includes open and closed source binary dependencies.|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|**Build dependencies:**        | Software artifacts fetched or otherwise made available to the build environment during the build of the artifact. This includes open and closed source binary dependencies.
```

> | Package registry | An entity responsible for mapping package names to artifacts within a packaging ecosystem. Most ecosystems support multiple registries, usually a single global registry and multiple private registries. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Package registry | An entity responsible for mapping package names to artifacts within a packaging ecosystem. Most ecosystems support multiple registries, usually a single global registry and multiple private registries.
```

| **Package registry**        | An entity responsible for mapping package names to artifacts within a packaging ecosystem. Most ecosystems support multiple registries, usually a single global registry and multiple private registries. |
| **Artifact repository manager** | A storage solution that manages your artifact lifecycle and supports different software package management systems while providing consistency to your CI/CD workflow |

> | **Dependency security metadata feed** | A metadata feed that provides security or risk information about each dependency to assist consumers in making judgements about the safety of their dependencies |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| **Dependency security metadata feed** | A metadata feed that provides security or risk information about each dependency to assist consumers in making judgements about the safety of their dependencies
```

---

## Onboarding

When onboarding your development environment to the SLSA Dependency Track, organizations are making claims about how dependencies are managed and consumed from that artifact version forward. This establishes continuity.

No claims are made for prior artifact versions.

## Levels and tracks

> | Track/Level | Requirements |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Track/Level | Requirements
```

> | **Package source files**    | A language-specific config file in a source code repo that identifies the package registry feeds or artifact repository manager feeds to consume dependencies from |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| **Package source files**    | A language-specific config file in a source code repo that identifies the package registry feeds or artifact repository manager feeds to consume dependencies from
```

> | **Track/Level** | **Requirements** | 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Track/Level | Requirements |
```

> |-----------------|------------------|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| --- | ---
```

> | Dependency L0 | (none) |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Dependency L0 | (none)
```

| Dependency L1 | Complete dependency inventory exists |

> | Dependency L2 | Known vulnerabilities have been triaged |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Dependency L2 | Known vulnerabilities have been triaged
```

| Dependency L3 | Dependencies consumed from sources under producer's control
| Dependency L4 | Proactive defence against upstream attacks

> ## Level 0: Uncontrolled dependency consumption

Reviewer 2: Level 0 doesn't make much sense to me - you shouldn't be able to achieve a level by doing 'nothing'

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

> | Dependency L3 | Dependencies consumed from sources under producer's control |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Dependency L3 | Dependencies consumed from sources under producer's control
```

> Dependencies are consumed without any verification, security checks, governance, or controls. This exposes systems to malicious or vulnerable components.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Dependencies are consumed without any verification, security checks, governance, or controls. This exposes systems to malicious or vulnerable components.

---

> ## Level 1: Maintain a complete inventory of all build dependencies for a released artifact.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Level 1: Maintain a complete inventory of all build dependencies for a released artifact
```

**Outcome:**  
All third party build dependencies (including transitive) are identified such that a software producer is able to automatically match them against known vulnerabilities and assess exposure to supply chain incidents (e.g. compromised upstream open source package). Build dependencies can be identified by:

> - Ecosystem, name and version (e.g. native names and versions used in package registries).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   Ecosystem, name and version (e.g. native names and versions used in package registries)
```

> - Common Platform Enumeration (CPE)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   Common Platform Enumeration (CPE)
```

> - Other identifiers that enable joining with known vulnerabilities data sources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   Other identifiers that enable joining with known vulnerabilities data sources
```

**Intended for:**
Consumers of third party dependencies, including open source, and third party binaries wanting to ingest dependencies from trusted and authenticated reputable package registries.

**Compliance options:**
- Build-time SBOM generated by the build tool, capturing complete direct and transitive dependencies for the artifact being released.

> - For language ecosystem dependencies, dependency pinning can serve as a starting point for many ecosystems as it provides identification for all transitive dependencies (e.g. `package-lock.json`, `pip –require-hashes`, `go.sum`, Gradle lock).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   For language ecosystem dependencies, dependency pinning can serve as a starting point for many ecosystems as it provides identification for all transitive dependencies (e.g. `package-lock.json`, `pip –require-hashes`, `go.sum`, Gradle lock)
```

- Software Composition Analysis (SCA) tools can serve as another starting point to produce an SBOM, capturing an artifact’s dependencies.

> - Metadata associated with vendored source code, identifying the dependency (e.g. by specifying CPE or ecosystem, name and version or a package URL).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   Metadata associated with vendored source code, identifying the dependency (e.g. by specifying CPE or ecosystem, name and version or a package URL)
```

**Benefits:**

> - Complete picture of all third party dependencies enables understanding of the risk exposure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   Complete picture of all third party dependencies enables understanding of the risk exposure.
```

> - Complete inventory is a prerequisite for known vulnerability management.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   Complete inventory is a prerequisite for known vulnerability management.
```

- Centralized inventory implementation can enable efficient incident response and risk exposure measurement.

**Threats mitigated at this level:**

> - Unknown dependencies in your supply chain is unmanaged risk

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   Unknown dependencies in your supply chain is unmanaged risk
```

---

## Level 2: All known vulnerabilities have been triaged prior to production release.

**Outcome:**  
Software producer triages all known vulnerabilities in software prior to its release. An outcome of the triage could be:
- The decision to remediate vulnerabilities, prior to release

> - The decision to proceed with the release and remediate vulnerabilities in the next release, following normal release cycle

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   The decision to proceed with the release and remediate vulnerabilities in the next release, following normal release cycle
```

> - The decision to proceed with the release and remediate vulnerabilities by expediting the next patch release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   The decision to proceed with the release and remediate vulnerabilities by expediting the next patch release.
```

**Intended for:**
Consumers of third party dependencies, including open source, wanting to validate the integrity of their ingested dependencies and improve the hygiene of vulnerable dependencies.

**Compliance options:**
- Third party build dependencies of the artifact being released as represented by an SBOM, lockfile, metadata files or other means are scanned for known vulnerabilities. Reported vulnerabilities are triaged and either remediated or not remediated in the given release.

> - Triage decisions for unremediated vulnerabilities can be recorded in a VEX attestation for internal policy enforcement (i.e. VEX is not required to be published to comply with this level).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   Triage decisions for unremediated vulnerabilities can be recorded in a VEX attestation for internal policy enforcement (i.e. VEX is not required to be published to comply with this level).
```

> - Regular updates outside of the artifact release cycle driven by new dependency releases or discovery of new known vulnerabilities using freely available tools like Dependabot/Renovatebot/OSV-Scanner can simplify the compliance process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   Regular updates outside of the artifact release cycle driven by new dependency releases or discovery of new known vulnerabilities using freely available tools like Dependabot/Renovatebot/OSV-Scanner can simplify the compliance process.
```

**NOTES / Discussion:**

> - Does NOT mean the artifact is free of vulnerabilities, but at the time of release all known vulnerabilities are triaged.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   Does NOT mean the artifact is free of vulnerabilities, but at the time of release all known vulnerabilities are triaged.
```

- Race condition: new vulnerability can, theoretically, be published on the same day as the release. 

**Benefits:**
All of Dependency L1, plus:

> - Conducting an inventory where each artifact is used, knowing in which services it is deployed, and in which products it was released is required for incident response scenarios so that teams affected by a compromised package can be contacted for  initiation of the appropriate actions that can be taken to remove the affected package.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   Conducting an inventory where each artifact is used, knowing in which services it is deployed, and in which products it was released is required for incident response scenarios so that teams affected by a compromised package can be contacted for  initiation of the appropriate actions that can be taken to remove the affected package.
```

**Threats mitigated at this level:**
- Accidental vulnerabilities in dependency code that can impact the security of your artifact

---

## Level 3: All third-party build dependencies are consumed from sources under the producer’s control.

**Outcome:**  

> - The build process consumes all third party build dependencies only from producer-controlled sources, which must address availability risks and third-party dependencies are mirrored from their canonical sources. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   The build process consumes all third party build dependencies only from producer-controlled sources, which must address availability risks and third-party dependencies are mirrored from their canonical sources. 
```

- Gains control of how dependencies enter the supply chain, reducing your attackable surface through standardization of dependency consumption. 

**Intended for:**
Consumers of third party dependencies, including open source, and third party binaries wanting to improve business continuity and control the consumption of dependencies through a standardized consumption method. 

**Compliance options:**
- Use of artifact management solutions to internally mirror third party dependencies in packaged form.
- Source code vendoring, e.g. by mirroring a copy of the upstream code in a local VCS or using ecosystems tools like `go mod vendor` or `cargo vendor`.
- Republishing third-party Docker base image under producer’s project.

**NOTES / Discussion:**

> - Build step must enforce use of systems under producer’s control.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   Build step must enforce use of systems under producer’s control.
```

> - Compliance with this level enables the ability to achieve Level 4 compliance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   Compliance with this level enables the ability to achieve Level 4 compliance.
```

**Benefits:**
All of Dependency L2, plus:
- Enables developers to continue to build even if upstream resources are unavailable
- Establishes a standardized consumption method to control how dependencies are consumed, thereby reducing your attackable surface

**Threats mitigated at this level:**

> - Availability risks of upstream sources being removed or taken down (e.g. left-pad incident) 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   Availability risks of upstream sources being removed or taken down (e.g. left-pad incident) 
```

---

## Level 4: Proactive defence against prevailing supply chain threats

**Outcome:**  
Software producer enforces the following minimum security policy over third-party build dependencies in order to prevent the consumption of compromised upstream artifacts:

> - All versions of build dependencies must be at least 72 hours old, with exemption for versions that address known vulnerabilities.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   All versions of build dependencies must be at least 72 hours old, with exemption for versions that address known vulnerabilities.
```

- All private producer-owned build dependencies are acquired from internal sources.
- Build dependencies must not contain any known malicious packages, or unwanted functionality (e.g. bitcoin miners).

**Intended for:**
Consumers of third party dependencies, including open source, and third party binaries wanting to mitigate against the most prevalent supply chain threats targeting the open source ecosystem.

**Compliance options:**
- Managed ingestion of artifacts into producer’s systems is one place to enforce the above requirements, e.g.:

>   - By only ingesting packages that were released 72 hours ago.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  -   By only ingesting packages that were released 72 hours ago.
```

  - By checking all packages and versions against known malicious packages databases (e.g. OpenSSF Malicious Packages).

> - Many artifact management solutions support virtual repositories that enable mitigation of dependency confusion.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   Many artifact management solutions support virtual repositories that enable mitigation of dependency confusion.
```

> - Leverage dependency security metadata feeds to inform policy decisions on dependencies you consume.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   Leverage dependency security metadata feeds to inform policy decisions on dependencies you consume.
```

**NOTES / Discussion:**

> - This capability builds on Level 3.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   This capability builds on Level 3.
```

**Benefits:**
All of Dependency L3, plus:

> - Policy enforcement systems are integrated into the standardized consumption method to check dependencies for issues before the dependency is downloaded.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   Policy enforcement systems are integrated into the standardized consumption method to check dependencies for issues before the dependency is downloaded.
```

> - Reduces risk of initial compromise from supply chain threats, preventing costs incurred from responding to an incident.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   Reduces risk of initial compromise from supply chain threats, preventing costs incurred from responding to an incident.
```

**Threats mitigated at this level:**
- A malicious actor compromises a known good dependency to add malicious functionality in a newly published version of that dependency (e.g. ESLint incident)
- A dependency adds a new transitive dependency that is malicious (e.g. Event-Stream incident)
- Typosquatting

> - Dependency Confusion

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   Dependency Confusion
```

> - Intentional vulnerabilities/backdoors/protestware added to a code base (e.g. Colors v1.4.1 incident, node-ipc incident)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   Intentional vulnerabilities/backdoors/protestware added to a code base (e.g. Colors v1.4.1 incident, node-ipc incident)
```

---

## Requirements

> | **Requirement** | **Description** | **L1** | **L2** | **L3** | **L4** |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Requirement | Description | L1 | L2 | L3 | L4 
```

> |-----------------|-----------------|--------|--------|--------|--------|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---
```

> | Maintain a complete inventory of all dependencies used in development | An organization producing artifacts MUST implement tooling that inventories dependencies for every version they release | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Maintain a complete inventory of all dependencies used in development | An organization producing artifacts MUST implement tooling that inventories dependencies for every version they release | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ | ✓
```

> | Scan dependencies for known vulnerabilities | An organization MUST proactively identify 3rd party dependency in their build that have known vulnerabilities |  | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Scan dependencies for known vulnerabilities | An organization MUST proactively identify 3rd party dependency in their build that have known vulnerabilities |  | ✓ | ✓ | ✓
```

> | Triage all vulnerable dependencies before release | An organization MUST triage all known vulnerabilities and either remediate the vulnerability, or not remediate in the given release. For example, an organization may make the decision for unremediated vulnerabilities to be recorded in a VEX attestation due to not being exploitable in the manner the dependency was integrated into their artifact |  | ✓ | ✓ | ✓ |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Triage all vulnerable dependencies before release | An organization MUST triage all known vulnerabilities and either remediate the vulnerability, or not remediate in the given release. For example, an organization may make the decision for unremediated vulnerabilities to be recorded in a VEX attestation due to not being exploitable in the manner the dependency was integrated into their artifact |  | ✓ | ✓ | ✓
```

> | The build process consumes all third party build dependencies only from producer-controlled sources | An organization MUST consume dependencies through producer-controlled sources, such as an artifact repository manager for packaged dependencies (e.g. NuGet, npm, pypi, maven, crates, rubygems), and vendored source code mirrored from upstream open source repos into repos under producer's control (e.g. C/C++, golang) |  |  | ✓ | ✓ |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| The build process consumes all third party build dependencies only from producer-controlled sources | An organization MUST consume dependencies through producer-controlled sources, such as an artifact repository manager for packaged dependencies (e.g. NuGet, npm, pypi, maven, crates, rubygems), and vendored source code mirrored from upstream open source repos into repos under producer's control (e.g. C/C++, golang) |  |  | ✓ | ✓
```

| Build dependencies meet minimum security requirements | An organization MUST consume dependencies that have been determined to have acceptable risk.  For example, an organization may implement a malware scanning solution to determine if a dependency is safe, or implement a quantine period before consumption of newest versions are allowed, or leverage a dependency security metadata feed to inform policy decisions.   |  |  |  | ✓

---

## Future Considerations

- Ability to apply private patches in response to zero-day vulnerabilities

> - All dependencies are verifiably built by a trusted builder

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   All dependencies are verifiably built by a trusted builder
```

> - Ability to detect and address dependencies that are End of Life (EOL)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   Ability to detect and address dependencies that are End of Life (EOL)
```

> | Build dependencies meet minimum security requirements | An organization MUST consume dependencies that have been determined to have acceptable risk.  For example, an organization may implement a malware scanning solution to determine if a dependency is safe, or implement a quantine period before consumption of newest versions are allowed, or leverage a dependency security metadata feed to inform policy decisions.   |  |  |  | ✓ |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Build dependencies meet minimum security requirements | An organization MUST consume dependencies that have been determined to have acceptable risk.  For example, an organization may implement a malware scanning solution to determine if a dependency is safe, or implement a quantine period before consumption of newest versions are allowed, or leverage a dependency security metadata feed to inform policy decisions.   |  |  |  | ✓
```

---
title: Dependency Track
description: This page describes the SLSA Dependeny track, which enablse a software producer to measure, control, and reduce risk introduced from third party dependencies.
---

## Objective

Enable a software producer to measure, control, and reduce risk introduced from third party dependencies.

## Audience

The Dependency Track is primarily aimed at enterprises/organizations, with medium to large-sized organizations benefiting the most from adoption of the dependency track levels. Organizations include enterprises, but also large open source projects that want to manage third party dependency risk.

## Scope

The scope of the SLSA Dependency Track is to properly manage and securely consume build dependencies into the developer workflow to mitigate against supply chain threats targeting the open source ecosystem.

---

## Definitions

| Primary Term | Description                                                                                                                                    

> |----|---

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|---|---
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> | Primary Term                | Description                                                                                                                                    

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Primary Term | Description                                                                                                                                    
```

> | Primary Term                | Description                                                                                                                                      |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Primary Term                | Description                                                                                                                                    
```

> |-----------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|-----------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

|**Build dependencies:**        | Software artifacts fetched or otherwise made available to the build environment during the build of the artifact. This includes open and closed source binary dependencies.
| **Package registry**        | An entity responsible for mapping package names to artifacts within a packaging ecosystem. Most ecosystems support multiple registries, usually a single global registry and multiple private registries.
| **Artifact repository manager** | A storage solution that manages your artifact lifecycle and supports different software package management systems while providing consistency to your CI/CD workflow

> | **Dependency security metadata feed** | A metadata feed that provides security or risk information about each dependency to assist consumers in making judgements about the safety of their dependencies

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Dependency security metadata feed | A metadata feed that provides security or risk information about each dependency to assist consumers in making judgements about the safety of their dependencies
```

> | **Package source files**    | A language-specific config file in a source code repo that identifies the package registry feeds or artifact repository manager feeds to consume dependencies from

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Package source files | A language-specific config file in a source code repo that identifies the package registry feeds or artifact repository manager feeds to consume dependencies from
```

| Dependency security metadata feed | A metadata feed that provides security or risk information about each dependency to assist consumers in making judgements about the safety of their dependencies
| Package source files | A language-specific config file in a source code repo that identifies the package registry feeds or artifact repository manager feeds to consume dependencies from

---

## Onboarding

When onboarding your development environment to the SLSA Dependency Track, organizations are making claims about how dependencies are managed and consumed from that artifact version forward. This establishes continuity.

No claims are made for prior artifact versions.

## Levels

| Level | Requirements
| --- | ---
| Dependency L0 | (none)
| Dependency L1 | Inventory of dependencies exists
| Dependency L2 | Known vulnerabilities have been triaged
| Dependency L3 | Dependencies consumed from sources under producer's control
| Dependency L4 | Proactive defence against upstream attacks

---

## Level 0: No mitigations to dependency threats
  

> **Summary**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Summary:**

```

L0 represents the lack of SLSA.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

> **Threats**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Threats:**

```

N/A

**Outcome**
N/A

## Level 1: Inventory of dependencies exists
   

> **Summary**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Summary:**

```

-   An inventory is a prerequisite to identify and manage known vulnerabilities
-   Implementing a centralized inventorycan enable efficient incident response and risk exposure measurement.

## Level 2: Known vulnerabilities have been triaged
   
**Summary**
All known vulnerabilities in the artifact have been triaged.

**Threat**
Introducing vulnerable dependencies into artifact.

**Outcome**
Artifacts are released with no unknown 'known' vulnerabilities. Outcomes of the triage could result in the decision to:

-   Remediate vulnerabilities, prior to release
-   Proceed with the release and remediate vulnerabilities in the next release, following normal release cycle
-   Proceed with the release and remediate vulnerabilities by expediting the next patch release.

**Note:**
-   Does NOT mean the artifact is free of vulnerabilities, but at the time of release all known vulnerabilities are triaged.
-   Race condition: new vulnerability can, theoretically, be published on the same day as the release.

## Level 3: Dependencies consumed from sources under producer's control
 
**Summary**
All third-party build dependencies are consumed from sources under the producer’s control

> **Threat**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Threat:**

```

Availability risks of upstream sources being removed or taken down (e.g. left-pad incident). 

**Outcome**
The build process consumes all third party build dependencies only from artifact producer-controlled sources, allowing for control of how dependencies enter the supply chain, reducing the attackable surface. 

## Level 4: Proactive defence against upstream attack
  
**Summary**
Artifact producer is able to enforce a secure ingestion policy over third-party build dependencies in order to prevent the consumption of compromised upstream artifacts.

**Threat**
Malicious attacks on upstream sources such as package managers, compromised packages, and dependency confusion.

> **Outcome**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Outcome**

```

Reduced likelihood of a released artifact including a malicious or compromised third-party dependency.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

**Note:**

This capability builds on Level 3.
```

**Compliance options:**

-   Use of artifact management solutions to internally mirror third party dependencies in packaged form.
-   Source code vendoring, e.g. by mirroring a copy of the upstream code in a local VCS or using ecosystems tools like `go mod vendor` or `cargo vendor`.
-   Republishing third-party Docker base image under producer’s project.

> **NOTES / Discussion:**
> 
> -   Build step must enforce use of systems under producer’s control.
> -   Compliance with this level enables the ability to achieve Level 4 compliance.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

---
title: Dependency Track
description: This page describes the SLSA Dependeny track, which enablse a software producer to measure, control, and reduce risk introduced from third party dependencies.
---

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

# Basics
```

| Package registry | An entity responsible for mapping package names to artifacts within a packaging ecosystem. Most ecosystems support multiple registries, usually a single global registry and multiple private registries.
| Artifact repository manager | A storage solution that manages your artifact lifecycle and supports different software package management systems while providing consistency to your CI/CD workflow
| Dependency security metadata feed | A metadata feed that provides security or risk information about each dependency to assist consumers in making judgements about the safety of their dependencies
| Package source files | A language-specific config file in a source code repo that identifies the package registry feeds or artifact repository manager feeds to consume dependencies from

---

## Onboarding

When onboarding your development environment to the SLSA Dependency Track, organizations are making claims about how dependencies are managed and consumed from that artifact version forward. This establishes continuity.

No claims are made for prior artifact versions.

## Levels and tracks

| Track/Level | Requirements
| --- | ---

> | Dependency L0 | (none)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> | Dependency L1 | Complete dependency inventory exists

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Dependency L1 | Comprehensive dependency inventory exists
```

| Dependency L2 | Known vulnerabilities have been triaged
| Dependency L3 | Dependencies consumed from sources under producer's control
| Dependency L4 | Proactive defence against upstream attacks

---

> ## Level 1: Maintain an inventory of all build dependencies for a released artifact

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Level 1: Inventory of dependencies exists

| |   
| ---| ---
| Summary   | Maintain an inventory of all build dependencies for a released artifact
| Threats   | Unknown dependencies in your supply chain is unmanaged risk |
| Outcome   | All third party build dependencies (including transitive) are identified such that a software producer is able to automatically match them against known vulnerabilities and assess exposure to supply chain incidents (e.g. compromised upstream open source package). Build dependencies can be identified by:

-   Ecosystem, name and version (e.g. native names and versions used in package registries).
-   Common Platform Enumeration (CPE).
-   Other identifiers that enable joining with known vulnerabilities data sources.
```

> ## Level 1: Maintain a complete inventory of all build dependencies for a released artifact

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Level 1: Maintain an inventory of all build dependencies for a released artifact
```

**Outcome:**  
All third party build dependencies (including transitive) are identified such that a software producer is able to automatically match them against known vulnerabilities and assess exposure to supply chain incidents (e.g. compromised upstream open source package). Build dependencies can be identified by:

-   Ecosystem, name and version (e.g. native names and versions used in package registries).
-   Common Platform Enumeration (CPE).
-   Other identifiers that enable joining with known vulnerabilities data sources.

**Intended for:**
Consumers of third party dependencies, including open source, and third party binaries wanting to ingest dependencies from trusted and authenticated reputable package registries.

**Compliance options:**

> -   Build-time SBOM generated by the build tool, capturing complete direct and transitive dependencies for the artifact being released.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   Build-time SBOM generated by the build tool, capturing direct and transitive dependencies for the artifact being released.
```

-   For language ecosystem dependencies, dependency pinning can serve as a starting point for many ecosystems as it provides identification for all transitive dependencies (e.g. `package-lock.json`, `pip –require-hashes`, `go.sum`, Gradle lock)
-   Software Composition Analysis (SCA) tools can serve as another starting point to produce an SBOM, capturing an artifact’s dependencies
-   Metadata associated with vendored source code, identifying the dependency (e.g. by specifying CPE or ecosystem, name and version or a package URL)

**Benefits:**

> -   Complete picture of all third party dependencies enables understanding of the risk exposure

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   Comprehensive picture of all third party dependencies enables understanding of the risk exposure
```

-   Complete inventory is a prerequisite for known vulnerability management
-   Centralized inventory implementation can enable efficient incident response and risk exposure measurement.

**Threats mitigated at this level:**

-   Unknown dependencies in your supply chain is unmanaged risk

---

> ## Level 2: All known vulnerabilities have been triaged prior to production release

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Level 2: All known vulnerabilities have been triaged
```

**Outcome:**  

> Software producer triages all known vulnerabilities in software prior to its release. An outcome of the triage could be:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Software producer triages all known vulnerabilities in the artifact. An outcome of the triage could be:
```

**Compliance options:**

-   Use of artifact management solutions to internally mirror third party dependencies in packaged form.
-   Source code vendoring, e.g. by mirroring a copy of the upstream code in a local VCS or using ecosystems tools like `go mod vendor` or `cargo vendor`.
-   Republishing third-party Docker base image under producer’s project.

**NOTES / Discussion:**

-   Build step must enforce use of systems under producer’s control.
-   Compliance with this level enables the ability to achieve Level 4 compliance.

**Benefits:**
All of Dependency L2, plus:

-   Enables developers to continue to build even if upstream resources are unavailable
-   Establishes a standardized consumption method to control how dependencies are consumed, thereby reducing your attackable surface

**Threats mitigated at this level:**

-   Availability risks of upstream sources being removed or taken down (e.g. left-pad incident).

---

## Level 4: Proactive defence against prevailing supply chain threats

**Outcome:**  

> Software producer enforces the following minimum security policy over third-party build dependencies in order to prevent the consumption of compromised upstream artifacts:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Software producer enforces the following minimum secure ingestion policy over third-party build dependencies in order to prevent the consumption of compromised upstream artifacts:
```

-   Build dependencies must not contain any known malicious packages, or unwanted functionality (e.g. bitcoin miners).

**Intended for:**
Consumers of third party dependencies, including open source, and third party binaries wanting to mitigate against the most prevalent supply chain threats targeting the open source ecosystem.

**Compliance options:**

-   Managed ingestion of artifacts into producer’s systems is one place to enforce the above requirements, e.g.:
    -   By only ingesting packages that were released 72 hours ago.
    -   By checking all packages and versions against known malicious packages databases (e.g. OpenSSF Malicious Packages).
-   Many artifact management solutions support virtual repositories that enable mitigation of dependency confusion.
-   Leverage dependency security metadata feeds to inform policy decisions on dependencies you consume.

**NOTES / Discussion:**

-   This capability builds on Level 3.

**Benefits:**
All of Dependency L3, plus:

-   Policy enforcement systems are integrated into the standardized consumption method to check dependencies for issues before the dependency is downloaded.

> -   Reduces risk of initial compromise from supply chain threats, preventing costs incurred from responding to an incident.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

-   Regular updates outside of the artifact release cycle driven by new dependency releases or discovery of new known vulnerabilities using freely available tools like Dependabot/Renovatebot/OSV-Scanner can simplify the compliance process.

**NOTES / Discussion:**

-   Does NOT mean the artifact is free of vulnerabilities, but at the time of release all known vulnerabilities are triaged.
-   Race condition: new vulnerability can, theoretically, be published on the same day as the release.

**Benefits:**
All of Dependency L1, plus:

-   Conducting an inventory where each artifact is used, knowing in which services it is deployed, and in which products it was released is required for incident response scenarios so that teams affected by a compromised package can be contacted for  initiation of the appropriate actions that can be taken to remove the affected package.

**Threats mitigated at this level:**

-   Accidental vulnerabilities in dependency code that can impact the security of your artifact

---

## Level 3: All third-party build dependencies are consumed from sources under the producer’s control

**Outcome:**

> -   The build process consumes all third party build dependencies only from producer-controlled sources, which must address availability risks and third-party dependencies are mirrored from their canonical sources. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   The build process consumes all third party build dependencies only from producer-controlled sources, which must address availability risks and third-party dependencies are mirrored from their canonical sources.
```

> -   Gains control of how dependencies enter the supply chain, reducing your attackable surface through standardization of dependency consumption. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   Gains control of how dependencies enter the supply chain, reducing your attackable surface through standardization of dependency consumption.
```

-   All versions of build dependencies must be at least 72 hours old, with exemption for versions that address known vulnerabilities.
-   All private producer-owned build dependencies are acquired from internal sources.
-   Build dependencies must not contain any known malicious packages, or unwanted functionality (e.g. bitcoin miners).

**Intended for:**
Consumers of third party dependencies, including open source, and third party binaries wanting to mitigate against the most prevalent supply chain threats targeting the open source ecosystem.

**Compliance options:**

-   Managed ingestion of artifacts into producer’s systems is one place to enforce the above requirements, e.g.:
  -   By only ingesting packages that were released 72 hours ago.
  -   By checking all packages and versions against known malicious packages databases (e.g. OpenSSF Malicious Packages).
-   Many artifact management solutions support virtual repositories that enable mitigation of dependency confusion.
-   Leverage dependency security metadata feeds to inform policy decisions on dependencies you consume.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

| Dependency security metadata feed | A metadata feed that provides security or risk information about each dependency to assist consumers in making judgements about the safety of their dependencies
| Package source files | A language-specific config file in a source code repo that identifies the package registry feeds or artifact repository manager feeds to consume dependencies from

---

## Onboarding

When onboarding your development environment to the SLSA Dependency Track, organizations are making claims about how dependencies are managed and consumed from that artifact version forward. This establishes continuity.

No claims are made for prior artifact versions.

## Levels and tracks

| Track/Level | Requirements
| --- | ---
| Dependency L0 | (none)
| Dependency L1 | Inventory of dependencies exists
| Dependency L2 | Known vulnerabilities have been triaged
| Dependency L3 | Dependencies consumed from sources under producer's control
| Dependency L4 | Proactive defence against upstream attacks

---

## Level 1: Inventory of dependencies exists

> | --- | ---

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|     |     
| --- | ---
```

| Dependency security metadata feed | A metadata feed that provides security or risk information about each dependency to assist consumers in making judgements about the safety of their dependencies
| Package source files | A language-specific config file in a source code repo that identifies the package registry feeds or artifact repository manager feeds to consume dependencies from

---

## Onboarding

When onboarding your development environment to the SLSA Dependency Track, organizations are making claims about how dependencies are managed and consumed from that artifact version forward. This establishes continuity.

No claims are made for prior artifact versions.

## Levels and tracks

| Track/Level | Requirements
| --- | ---
| Dependency L0 | (none)
| Dependency L1 | Inventory of dependencies exists
| Dependency L2 | Known vulnerabilities have been triaged
| Dependency L3 | Dependencies consumed from sources under producer's control
| Dependency L4 | Proactive defence against upstream attacks

---

## Level 1: Inventory of dependencies exists

> | --- | ---

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> | Summary | Maintain an inventory of all build dependencies for a released artifact

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 **Summary**
Maintain an inventory of all build dependencies for a released artifact

**Threat**
Inability to respond to incidents or remediate vulnerabilities

**Outcome**
All third party build dependencies (including transitive) are identified such that a software producer is able to automatically match them against known vulnerabilities and assess exposure to supply chain incidents (e.g. compromised upstream open source package).
```

> | Threats | Unknown dependencies in your supply chain is unmanaged risk

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> | Outcome | All third party build dependencies (including transitive) are identified such that a software producer is able to automatically match them against known vulnerabilities and assess exposure to supply chain incidents (e.g. compromised upstream open source package).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

-   Other identifiers that enable joining with known vulnerabilities data sources.

**Intended for:**
Consumers of third party dependencies, including open source, and third party binaries wanting to ingest dependencies from trusted and authenticated reputable package registries.

**Compliance options:**

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

-   Build-time SBOM generated by the build tool, capturing complete direct and transitive dependencies for the artifact being released.
-   For language ecosystem dependencies, dependency pinning can serve as a starting point for many ecosystems as it provides identification for all transitive dependencies (e.g. `package-lock.json`, `pip –require-hashes`, `go.sum`, Gradle lock)
-   Software Composition Analysis (SCA) tools can serve as another starting point to produce an SBOM, capturing an artifact’s dependencies
-   Metadata associated with vendored source code, identifying the dependency (e.g. by specifying CPE or ecosystem, name and version or a package URL)

**Benefits:**

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

-   Complete picture of all third party dependencies enables understanding of the risk exposure
-   Complete inventory is a prerequisite for known vulnerability management
-   Centralized inventory implementation can enable efficient incident response and risk exposure measurement.

**Threats mitigated at this level:**

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

-   The decision to proceed with the release and remediate vulnerabilities by expediting the next patch release.

**Intended for:**

Consumers of third party dependencies, including open source, wanting to validate the integrity of their ingested dependencies and improve the hygiene of vulnerable dependencies.

**Compliance options:**

-   Third party build dependencies of the artifact being released as represented by an SBOM, lockfile, metadata files or other means are scanned for known vulnerabilities. Reported vulnerabilities are triaged and either remediated or not remediated in the given release.
-   Triage decisions for unremediated vulnerabilities can be recorded in a VEX attestation for internal policy enforcement (i.e. VEX is not required to be published to comply with this level).
-   Regular updates outside of the artifact release cycle driven by new dependency releases or discovery of new known vulnerabilities using freely available tools like Dependabot/Renovatebot/OSV-Scanner can simplify the compliance process.

**NOTES / Discussion:**

-   Does NOT mean the artifact is free of vulnerabilities, but at the time of release all known vulnerabilities are triaged.

> -   Race condition: new vulnerability can, theoretically, be published on the same day as the release. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   Race condition: new vulnerability can, theoretically, be published on the same day as the release.
```

**Benefits:**
All of Dependency L1, plus:

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

-   Conducting an inventory where each artifact is used, knowing in which services it is deployed, and in which products it was released is required for incident response scenarios so that teams affected by a compromised package can be contacted for  initiation of the appropriate actions that can be taken to remove the affected package.

**Threats mitigated at this level:**

-   Accidental vulnerabilities in dependency code that can impact the security of your artifact

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

| Dependency security metadata feed | A metadata feed that provides security or risk information about each dependency to assist consumers in making judgements about the safety of their dependencies
| Package source files | A language-specific config file in a source code repo that identifies the package registry feeds or artifact repository manager feeds to consume dependencies from

---

## Onboarding

When onboarding your development environment to the SLSA Dependency Track, organizations are making claims about how dependencies are managed and consumed from that artifact version forward. This establishes continuity.

No claims are made for prior artifact versions.

## Levels and tracks

| Track/Level | Requirements
| --- | ---
| Dependency L0 | (none)
| Dependency L1 | Inventory of dependencies exists
| Dependency L2 | Known vulnerabilities have been triaged
| Dependency L3 | Dependencies consumed from sources under producer's control
| Dependency L4 | Proactive defence against upstream attacks

---

## Level 1: Inventory of dependencies exists

> | |   

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> | ---| ---

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| --- | ---
```

| Summary | Maintain an inventory of all build dependencies for a released artifact
| Threats | Unknown dependencies in your supply chain is unmanaged risk

> | Outcome | All third party build dependencies (including transitive) are identified such that a software producer is able to automatically match them against known vulnerabilities and assess exposure to supply chain incidents (e.g. compromised upstream open source package). Build dependencies can be identified by:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Outcome | All third party build dependencies (including transitive) are identified such that a software producer is able to automatically match them against known vulnerabilities and assess exposure to supply chain incidents (e.g. compromised upstream open source package).
```

-   Ecosystem, name and version (e.g. native names and versions used in package registries).
-   Common Platform Enumeration (CPE).

> -   Other identifiers that enable joining with known vulnerabilities data sources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

| Package registry | An entity responsible for mapping package names to artifacts within a packaging ecosystem. Most ecosystems support multiple registries, usually a single global registry and multiple private registries.
| Artifact repository manager | A storage solution that manages your artifact lifecycle and supports different software package management systems while providing consistency to your CI/CD workflow
| Dependency security metadata feed | A metadata feed that provides security or risk information about each dependency to assist consumers in making judgements about the safety of their dependencies
| Package source files | A language-specific config file in a source code repo that identifies the package registry feeds or artifact repository manager feeds to consume dependencies from

---

## Onboarding

When onboarding your development environment to the SLSA Dependency Track, organizations are making claims about how dependencies are managed and consumed from that artifact version forward. This establishes continuity.

No claims are made for prior artifact versions.

## Levels and tracks

> | Track/Level | Requirements

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Level | Requirements
```

| --- | ---
| Dependency L0 | (none)
| Dependency L1 | Inventory of dependencies exists
| Dependency L2 | Known vulnerabilities have been triaged
| Dependency L3 | Dependencies consumed from sources under producer's control
| Dependency L4 | Proactive defence against upstream attacks

---

> ## Level 1: Inventory of dependencies exists

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Level 0: No mitigations to dependency threats
  
**Summary**
L0 represents the lack of SLSA.

**Threats**
N/A

**Outcome**
N/A

## Level 1: Inventory of dependencies exists
   
**Summary**
Maintain an inventory of all build dependencies for a released artifact.

**Threat**
Inability to respond to incidents or remediate vulnerabilities.

**Outcome**
All third party build dependencies (including transitive) are identified such that the artifact producer is able to is able to match them against known vulnerabilities, assess exposure to supply chain incidents (e.g. compromised upstream open source package).

## Level 2: Known vulnerabilities have been triaged
   
**Summary**
All known vulnerabilities in the artifact have been triaged.

**Threat**
Introducing vulnerable dependencies into artifact.

**Outcome**
Artifacts are released with no unknown 'known' vulnerabilities. 

## Level 3: Dependencies consumed from sources under producer's control
 
**Summary**
All third-party build dependencies are consumed from sources under the producer’s control

**Threat**
Availability risks of upstream sources being removed or taken down (e.g. left-pad incident). 

**Outcome**
Build dependencies remain available and consumable regardless of upstream status. 
 

## Level 4: Proactive defence against upstream attack
  
**Summary**
Artifact producer is able to enforce a secure ingestion policy over third-party build dependencies in order to prevent the consumption of compromised upstream artifacts.

**Threat**
Malicious attacks on upstream sources such as package managers, compromised packages, and dependency confusion.

**Outcome**
Reduced likelihood of a released artifact including a malicious or compromised third-party dependency.
```

> |     |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

>  **Summary**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> Maintain an inventory of all build dependencies for a released artifact

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> **Threat**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Inability to respond to incidents or remediate vulnerabilities

**Outcome**
All third party build dependencies (including transitive) are identified such that a software producer is able to automatically match them against known vulnerabilities and assess exposure to supply chain incidents (e.g. compromised upstream open source package).

> | Outcome | All third party build dependencies (including transitive) are identified such that a software producer is able to automatically match them against known vulnerabilities and assess exposure to supply chain incidents (e.g. compromised upstream open source package).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

**Outcome:**  

> -   Ecosystem, name and version (e.g. native names and versions used in package registries).
> -   Common Platform Enumeration (CPE).
> -   Other identifiers that enable joining with known vulnerabilities data sources.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

**Intended for:**
Consumers of third party dependencies, including open source, and third party binaries wanting to ingest dependencies from trusted and authenticated reputable package registries.

> **Compliance options:**
> 
> -   Build-time SBOM generated by the build tool, capturing direct and transitive dependencies for the artifact being released.
> -   For language ecosystem dependencies, dependency pinning can serve as a starting point for many ecosystems as it provides identification for all transitive dependencies (e.g. `package-lock.json`, `pip –require-hashes`, `go.sum`, Gradle lock)
> -   Software Composition Analysis (SCA) tools can serve as another starting point to produce an SBOM, capturing an artifact’s dependencies
> -   Metadata associated with vendored source code, identifying the dependency (e.g. by specifying CPE or ecosystem, name and version or a package URL)
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

**Benefits:**

> 
> -   Comprehensive picture of all third party dependencies enables understanding of the risk exposure
> -   An inventory is a prerequisite for known vulnerability management
> -   Centralized inventory implementation can enable efficient incident response and risk exposure measurement.
> 
> **Threats mitigated at this level:**
> 
> -   Unknown dependencies in your supply chain is unmanaged risk
> 
> ---
> 
> ## Level 2: All known vulnerabilities have been triaged
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> |     |
>  **Summary**
> Maintain an inventory of all build dependencies for a released artifact
> 
> **Threat**
> Inability to respond to incidents or remediate vulnerabilities
> 
> **Outcome**
> All third party build dependencies (including transitive) are identified such that a software producer is able to automatically match them against known vulnerabilities and assess exposure to supply chain incidents (e.g. compromised upstream open source package).
> | Outcome | All third party build dependencies (including transitive) are identified such that a software producer is able to automatically match them against known vulnerabilities and assess exposure to supply chain incidents (e.g. compromised upstream open source package).
> 
> **Outcome:**  
> 
> -   Ecosystem, name and version (e.g. native names and versions used in package registries).
> -   Common Platform Enumeration (CPE).
> -   Other identifiers that enable joining with known vulnerabilities data sources.
> 
> **Intended for:**
> Consumers of third party dependencies, including open source, and third party binaries wanting to ingest dependencies from trusted and authenticated reputable package registries.
> 
> **Compliance options:**
> 
> -   Build-time SBOM generated by the build tool, capturing direct and transitive dependencies for the artifact being released.
> -   For language ecosystem dependencies, dependency pinning can serve as a starting point for many ecosystems as it provides identification for all transitive dependencies (e.g. `package-lock.json`, `pip –require-hashes`, `go.sum`, Gradle lock)
> -   Software Composition Analysis (SCA) tools can serve as another starting point to produce an SBOM, capturing an artifact’s dependencies
> -   Metadata associated with vendored source code, identifying the dependency (e.g. by specifying CPE or ecosystem, name and version or a package URL)
> 
> **Benefits:**
> 
> -   Comprehensive picture of all third party dependencies enables understanding of the risk exposure
> -   An inventory is a prerequisite for known vulnerability management
> -   Centralized inventory implementation can enable efficient incident response and risk exposure measurement.
> 
> **Threats mitigated at this level:**
> 
> -   Unknown dependencies in your supply chain is unmanaged risk
> 
> ---
> 
> ## Level 2: All known vulnerabilities have been triaged
> 
> **Outcome:**  
> Software producer triages all known vulnerabilities in the artifact. An outcome of the triage could be:
> 
> -   The decision to remediate vulnerabilities, prior to release
> -   The decision to proceed with the release and remediate vulnerabilities in the next release, following normal release cycle
> -   The decision to proceed with the release and remediate vulnerabilities by expediting the next patch release.
> 
> **Intended for:**
> 
> Consumers of third party dependencies, including open source, wanting to validate the integrity of their ingested dependencies and improve the hygiene of vulnerable dependencies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> 
> **Compliance options:**
> 
> -   Third party build dependencies of the artifact being released as represented by an SBOM, lockfile, metadata files or other means are scanned for known vulnerabilities. Reported vulnerabilities are triaged and either remediated or not remediated in the given release.
> -   Triage decisions for unremediated vulnerabilities can be recorded in a VEX attestation for internal policy enforcement (i.e. VEX is not required to be published to comply with this level).
> -   Regular updates outside of the artifact release cycle driven by new dependency releases or discovery of new known vulnerabilities using freely available tools like Dependabot/Renovatebot/OSV-Scanner can simplify the compliance process.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
